When making changes to a model, often you would like to reuse the same form that you had for creating
the model in the first place.
That's exactly what we will do here.
I'm not saying to always try to use the same code for create or edit form, you would have to decide
if it's worth it.
Programming is always finding a balance.
In this case.
It's the balance between code reuse and additional complexity introduced.
But don't worry about that.
Too much decisions like this are simpler as you gain experience to reuse a forum which will create a
partial cold forum blade.
Poppy, let's move the inputs and error reporting there from the Create Blade HP.
Then includes the partial in the create template.
Now we can create that added form.
Inside the eddied blade pop file.
Notice how the template name matches the resource controller action name where it will be rendered.
The first step is to copy over the contents of the create template.
We need to make some changes here, the roots to form a sense to these posts, update.
This route needs to have a parameter, so let's assume the variable called post with the blog post model
instance will be passed to this template.
Let's set route parameter called post.
As the action updating specific model needs to know the idea of the model.
Then the trivial changes of the labels, so first the title, let's change it from create to update.
And so with the submitting button from create to update.
Next comes the issue of HTP verb used on editing actions, it has to be Putes or Parch.
Wait a minute, how would you send a form when HTML only allows the method attribute of the form tag
to be either get or post?
Well, there comes a lot of a mechanism called method spoofing.
The method attribute can stay exposed, but you need to add the method directive with the actual method.
Put this would add a hidden underscore method field to the form and will let Laravel understand that
you intended to hit the put or patch and point even though the actual HDB method to use post.
So we are sorted here.
Now, please open the web routine config file and let's enhance the edit route as one of the enabled
routes for our resource controller.
Now, let's open the post controller and we will implement the added action, we have the model ID.
So we need to fetch the model using blog post, find or fail.
And we will pass it to the view function.
That is responsible to render the form, so the view name is posts edit
and it needs a post template variable to which will pass the model we have just fetched.
Let's see if we can test this form.
So let's visit a forum for the blog post 81, assuming you have a blog post with such ideas in the database.
And we get an error, the root posts dot update is not defined well, this should be expected because
in the edit forum we rely on this route to be defined to generate.
Are you ready for it?
And we haven't enabled this route inside the Web routing file, so we have to add it.
Now, the next thing that comes up, you'd expect the form to be filled with current data.
So let's refresh this route for the existing post.
And surprise, the form is empty, so not ideal.
Let's see what we can do.
Fortunately, the old function allows specifying our default value, so let's use that set the default
value to be post title.
And post content, respectively.
Now, refresh the form, it works now.
But wait, we use the same forum for creating models, too, would it still work if we don't pass the
post model their.
Well, of course it won't.
So are we stuck again?
No, of course not, Laravel offers elegant solutions to all problems.
Here comes the optional helper function.
Surround an object with an optional call.
And you can access its properties, whether the object is null or not, pretty nice feature.
But Blade will still complain if the variable is not defined at all, and while that is our case, the
post variable is not no, it's just not defined at all.
So another solution, just to use the null coalescing operator.
It returns the value on the left or the value on the right, if the value on the left is null or does
not exist.
This solves our problem.
So let me say that again.
If both would be existing and not null, it would be used.
If it would be not defined or null, the value on the right will be used.
And since we surrounded with an optional function, we are all set.
So refresh, and now we have the same form we can use for creating and editing the post.
So as a summary, you've definitely learned some useful techniques, but also you can see that sometimes
trying to reuse code might not be worth it.
It might be simpler to just create two separate form templates, but I'm not going to tell you which
option is better.
It's up to you and your preference.
Anyway, our goal here is not to just build another blog post up.
Our goal is to learn using all possible techniques Laravel has to offer.
We've chosen the more complex way.